In this lab I've got three Cisco routers running with ingenius three connected to a switch which in
turn has NPM connected to it.
Here's my NPM server and as an example I can ping 10 1 100 1 which is Rotto one on Broadway one is an
example I can type debug IP see ICMP and back on NPM when a ping then an IP address I'm getting echo
replies sent on the Rodda.
So the Rodda is receiving the ICMP messages from the NPM server.
So log in under node's Cisco.
I can see that I have three routers currently up.
Says an example wrote a one with IP address 10:01 101 is shown is up and I can see some information
about that device.
Now ingenius 3 I'm going to start capturing on the link from NPM to the switch I'll capture traffic
on the switch interface.
What I'd like to point out is notice ICMP messages from NPM the server has an IP address of 10 1 100
100.
That's what we are seeing as the source in the Why Shock capture.
So echo ping request.
And then he has a response from the router.
So as an example I could filter for ICMP messages and what we can see here is an example is ICMP message
from NPM to router to and Rodda to replying.
It can also do a search for SMP.
So in this example we've got an S&P message from NPM to Rotto 3.
Opening that up we can see it's a data request message.
It's trying to get this I.D. information.
A response back from the Rodda more response information sent back notice o id information.
So in the background NPM is requesting information from the road as in this example it's queering Rodek
to and Rodek to is responding here it's queering Rodda 3 and so forth and so on that information is
then displayed in a nice graphical format on the NPM server as an example of a click and Rotto one I
can see information about this device.
I can see that it's up seats IP address see other information including the SSAs object id lost to boot.
I could even click on the telnet link and launch a telnet application to telnet to directly to the device.
That would require a telnet client enabled on my PC.
Scrolling down I can see as an example that the polling method is used for those devices and MP and
the polling interval is 120 seconds.
I can see as an example to interfaces and the state of those interfaces we can see other information
about the device including that it was rebooted Let's have a look at rowdier to see his router to we
can see information about the node.
Once again that it's up we can see that it's being polled with an MP we can see the interfaces once
again.
So let's have a look at cereal 0 0 in this case we can see the utilization isn't very high on the thing
to face because no traffic is being sent.
And we can see that the interface is up to a router to interface serials 0 slash 0.
That's the interface that we're looking at in NPM or shut the interface down interface has gone down.
I'll click poll and now.
And as you can see the interface is being shut down.
That interface has gone down in Wireshark.
We can see that a message was sent from NPM to the router and the router then responded with information
about the IDs on the device.
So let's do that again.
What I'll do is restart the capture.
We're going to search for Asen MP and I'm going to specify an IP address Tennet wondered one hundred
or two so we can see requests from the management station and then responses back from the Rodda.
What I'll do now is no shut the interface so bring it up.
So I'm bringing up serial 0 0 back in the management interface.
I'll click poll now and notice there are no values for different IDs and now responses are coming back
from the Rodda poll again interface's up.
So that was done previously.
So the NPM device is able to retrieve status information of network interfaces by using SMP.
We can see for instance the speed of the interface utilization and other options on the interface of
the Rodda all running within Jena's 3.